# Building Communities: Understanding Our Communities

## Abstract (250 words)

The growing success of the RSE movement in the UK and elsewhere has been built
around connections within and between communities. RSE groups have established
themselves in part by developing connections with their local research groups.
The RSE community itself has flourished by connecting diverse and energetic members
from across the UK, Europe, and the world. Furthermore, many RSEs are themselves
members of a great variety of other communities relating to their work, whether
those are professional communities of practice ( e.g. DLR Software Engineering
Network; EMBL Bio-IT), online, open source communities, local coding/interest
groups (Code First: Girls; R-Ladies; Heidelberg Unseminar in Bioinformatics), or
others not covered by the descriptors above.

After first connecting at RSE17, members of some of these open science
communities have begun meeting regularly to share our experiences in community
building. You can read about our progress so far at
https://bio-it-embl.piratenpad.de/building-communities .
We would love to expand the number and diversity of communities that are
represented in these discussions and here we invite RSEs to join us for a
face-to-face meeting. We will focus on methods and resources that can be used to
better understand the communities that we are members of, and how we can best
support them. This will be a participant-driven discussion, in which we hope to
gather and benefit from the experiences of attendees, and compile a list of
approaches and resources that can be used to understand the motivations, needs,
and priorities of open science communities.

## How will your attendees benefit from your workshop? (250 words)

Many RSEs and RSE groups aim to connect with their local community of
researchers. As shown by recent community surveys, many RSEs are also
geographically isolated and lack opportunities to build their own network or
interact with fellow RSEs. By connecting people interested in building
communities, we hope to benefit from the past experience of others, to
identify areas of common ground, and to reduce redundancy of effort by developing
and sharing useful resources. Attendees of the workshop will have the opportunity
to share their experience and learn about what others are doing to build their
community/communities, what has worked, and what to avoid. They stand to benefit
from a discussion about strategies and resources that can be used to better
understand their community members, giving them the knowledge that they need to
serve/connect more effectively with these members. The "meta-community" around
these Building Communities meetings is still in its infancy, and would welcome
input and ideas from new members, helping to influence the format, style, and
subject matter of this and future meetings.
